Let's talk about static polymorphism.
It is very simple actually.
We already know that it is done only within classes obstruct or concrete or interfaces.
And the other thing to know is that it happens during compile time which I will explain to you in just
a minute.
Let's imagine that we just got a new business requirement for a developer base class stating that we
need other methods of coding.
One method we'll take in an additional developer language besides the primary and the other method will
take in two additional development languages besides the primary.
And as you have already guessed for each method we would need to display a different message stating
that we're using those additional development languages so we can do this without static polymorphism.
We could just do this by using conditional statements.
So let's go ahead and skip static polymorphism and just use good old fashioned if else statements.
Let's do that first and then we will clean up our code afterwards.
So we'll go to a developer and here I will just pass into parameters string first extra Dev language
and string second extra Dev language.
All right.
And here are some conditions.
First of all we're going to make these optional.
So we're going to say if nobody passes in first extra Dev language then just set it to no meaning set
it to nothing.
Same thing do it for the second extra Dev language.
Now we're going to say if forced sex or Dev language is basically null and second extra Dev language
is normal.
Meaning that nothing has been passed in that what we're going to do is we're going to just print the
regular message which we had before which is just printing the primary message right next condition
is going to state if we have both of them set to something.
So if our first extra Dev language is something so it's not normal.
And same thing goes for our second extra Dev language.
So they're both set to something.
We're going to say is the following We're going to say
here we go.
We're going to say I'm coding using my main dev language additionally.
So additionally
I am using
the first extra and the second extra languages so additionally I'm using whatever it is that's going
to be in there.
And the second thing that's going to be in there is extra Dev language is great.
Now it's pop them in there.
So first extra dub language second extra Dev language by the way.
This is not this.
That was my mistake.
So it's just a parameter coming down from here.
It doesn't belong to the class.
So I don't needed this for that the first extra day of language second extra Dev language.
That's all we need now.
A few more conditions.
I'm going to go down and continue those on.
So I will say first extra Dev language is not normal.
Meaning that if both of them are not then this is what's going to happen.
If none of them are no everything is passed and then this was going to happen.
If only the first one is passed in then I'm going to say I'm call I'm I'm coding using my main dev language
Additionally I'm using that
whatever it is.
As extra devil language so I'm just going to say first and then this is going to repeat the same exact
things aren't going to repeat for the second one.
And the second one is going to say second extra dub language.
Using that as extra dub language.
So that's it.
And for this one the condition is going to be different.
So we're going to see if the second extra Dev language is not no.
OK.
As you can see this is not very clean.
Firstly using if else statements is not the most preferable way to go unless you have to.
The reason is because the code becomes harder to manage.
In our case it is a very simple requirement but if there were more parameters this could get pretty
ugly which would be hard to read and maintain.
Before anything let's instantiate our Web developer class and test out our code method.
So I could have also instantiated the software developer but web developer is already here so let's
just go with that.
Remove this.
Keep it simple and plain.
OK.
We don't need develop this example so to say code OK this works.
What if I said code with an additional language of C Sharpless they they're working on whether API that
works as well and if they are working on a web API on the back end and let's say front and each team
out that works as well.
But here is another thing.
We can also do things such as this.
We can just pass on something that's normal and then also have the second language be HMO.
I mean what this is going to do is it's going to do the same thing as this because we are checking here
to say if the first language is NULL which in this case if it's if both both are now theirs what's can
happen of none our knowledge that this going to happen if first is not know then that's going to happen.
But if this fails then it's going to fall back on this guy which is second extra language is not normal
and then it's going to do the same message but just for the second extra Dev language so it can actually
run and see that that works.
And I will go ahead and do just that
so go through this just says I'm quoting using my main dev language angular six second one.
Additionally I am using C sharp as extra Dev languages it says which we can just change.
It's just a verbal thing for the second line it says I'm using C sharp finish Tamil is extra Dev language
is cool.
And then last one is I'm using your stamina as extra Dev language.
So it's a singular but still you know we have this weird thing where we can just pass on a null and
it treats us as a as a source as a single extra Dev language past.
So it's actually let's go.
One thing we want to quickly fix say language is extra Dev language and language course.
That's just kind of a quick fix there.
And as we can see we have successfully satisfied our business requirements.
However on the back end the code is not the best.
So here the code is not the best.
Just looking at this which is very simple solution to a very simple problem it already looks cryptic
and you have to read through the entire thing to understand what it means.
Also there is a lot more room for error.
For example if you messed up the order of your conditions and bring the second one all the way to the
end then the whole thing will start to malfunction.
Let's try it.
So for example if I take this and put it at the bottom right here.
Now this will not function properly anymore.
Let's see why if I don't pass anything as my first extra Dev language and I don't pass anything as my
second extra Dev language fine.
Sounds good.
The first condition will work just fine.
It'll print the default message then what's going to happen is if I pass both of them men so I have
first extra Dev language and I have second extra Dev language.
And guess what.
It's only going to check the first condition is gonna say is there a first extra Dev language.
Cool sounds good.
Then just go ahead and print this it'll won't even hit the last condition which would actually check
for the second extra Dev language and print this message which would be the proper response.
But since you're mixing up the conditions it's very easy for this code to break.
So if I was just some person and rewriting this thing and I wasn't very careful I could have easily
broken the functionality.
So you can see that this is very fragile right.
So it can actually go out and try that.
We'll see that this is malfunctioning now run that thing give it a second and see if we go here first
all works.
Second one says I'm using C sharp great but then see the third one.
It says I'm using C sharp as extra Dev language but it's not really taken into consideration the fact
that we passing each team out and the last one works properly because it says you know the first one
is not there so I'm going to go through a second but the case where we're able to pass in two languages
does just broke.
And that's because it's easy to break this code.
It's not very readable and maintainable.
So if somebody wants to refactor it or rewrite it there's a higher probability that they would break
it.
Now the entire complexity of bad readability can be avoided if we use static polymorphism.
Let's check it out.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say this.
I'm going to basically pass in the code here and say virtual.
That's cool.
It's only it's not going to have any additional or optional rather parameters for the one where it's
both of them passed and this is the message.
Cut them paste it right here.
So that's that if this doesn't have any parameters we just want to keep it to the original.
So by the way C I have the same signature so it says you cannot have the same method but if I take it
out C.
Okay so that's how I'm able to make it work if I have different parameters.
We'll talk about that just in a few seconds but I'm just gonna write the code first.
So this is the case where we're using the primary language and then what's going to happen is right
in the middle I'm gonna put
one where we only have one extra language and in this case I'm going to change the name of the parameter.
Extra language and I'm going to grab this guy and wouldn't have to repeat the code as well popping in
here.
Extra language boom.
And that's it.
Take the whole thing out.
And here we go.
As you can see now I have the same name method which is code.
However I'm passing in a different variables inside so different parameters or different amount of parameters.
This is what I meant when I said that static polymorphism happens during compile time.
We're basically determining it's different behavior as we're writing our code.
Not while the code is running.
Isn't this much cleaner and much more readable.
Of course it is.
There's not much room for user error.
And if anybody else rewrites any of these methods and none of the conditions would be accidentally messed
up because the code is a lot simpler and we're also not repeating ourselves.
Also this is what I meant when I said that a component can have the same form but different behavior
so static polymorphism as we have mentioned that component is the method.
So it is on a method level.
In our case the method is code and the signature of the method is exactly the same except the parameter
it is taking and that is what determines is different behavior which then will allow us to use static
polymorphism as an O feature or object or in a feature.
So once again the name is the same.
It's code type is void.
Virtual Public.
Everything is the same except the parameters that is taking this one is taking one.
This one is taking into this one is a string and this one has two strings so one more thing.
The way you can differentiate methods from one another is as follows.
You can have different amounts of parameters which is what we have currently.
We have different amounts so this has nothing.
This has one and this has two.
You can have the same amount or different amount but different types of parameters and you can have
the same amount or different amount but parameters put in a different order.
So I'm just gonna quickly demonstrate that.
For example let's say this had another parameter and it's extra Dev language too.
For simplicity's sake I'm not going to keep it here so that's the reason c I can't have it here.
Why.
Because the signature is exactly the same.
This now has parameters that are two strings and two strings so it doesn't know how to differentiate.
If I take it out then it knows.
So that's how we're just relying on the different amount but the types were the same.
If I change this into end that's a different type.
Now I can still differentiate it and that's cool but if let's say this guy was also end that would not
work.
However C right on the line.
However if I was to change the order of it then it would work again.
So it's a three ways in which we can differentiate it.
The amount to types and the order in which they're placed OK.
One thing is it's actually not recommended to differentiate your methods based on the order of parameters
because it makes your code very confusing so just try to rely on the amount of parameters and the types
of parameters.
So I'll actually bring this back to its original state.
Here we go.
Now let's actually look at the program.
As you can see nothing has changed and everything is working just fine.
So the way we have instantiate our method is exactly the same and the way we call code method is also
exactly the same.
However on the back end we're using static polymorphism in order to clean up our code.
Also this last one is not a weird behavior anymore because with this all we're saying is that the first
language is null and the second language is h Tamil.
But this method will still hit this guy which is first extra language and second extra Dev language.
It's much more intuitive whereas in the other case you are passing it to is but it's treating it as
if you were passing and only one proud.
So it's just confusing.
But in this case if you're passing it is no it just says that a I just don't have that programming language
so I'm not going to show anything.
So if we actually run this you'll see what I mean by that.
We go here first one works.
Second one works.
Third one also works C sharp an HMO.
And the last one.
See it just says I'm using there's empty space.
It's null because it doesn't know what to write I mean it's just an empty space and a Tamil is extra
Dev languages but it's much more intuitive because when you're code when you're calling the code method
and you're passing in two things whether it has Nolen it or has two parameters you are expecting that
this is the message that's going to come back instead of it making some strange assumptions in the back
end and treating it treating this case the same as this just because we're using conditional statements
and getting around the problem in a hacky way or in other words as I've already said many many times
we're trying to fit the square peg in a round hole.
So this is it.
I will go back to the developer see much much cleaner and that's it in our next video.
We'll talk about dynamic polymorphism.